---
layout: post
title: "Basic Xmonad setup in (L)ubuntu"
tags:
- linux
---

Xmonad is a featureful and productive tiling window manager written in Haskell. The following is a super simple setup on Lubuntu (can be setup similarly on Ubuntu based systems).

####Installation

    $ sudo apt-get install ghc6 libx11-dev cabal-install gmrun
    $ sudo cabal update
    $ sudo cabal install xmonad --global
    $ sudo cabal install xmonad-contrib --global

####Setup

Create the file __/usr/share/xsessions/xmonad.desktop__ with the following contents (root required).

    [Desktop Entry]
    Name=XMonad
    Comment=Lightweight tiling window manager
    Exec=xmonad
    Type=XSession

Give the above file proper permissions.

    $ sudo chown root:root /usr/share/xsessions/xmonad.desktop

The above file is required to give you the option to choose xmonad as your window manager at the login prompt.

Next, let us configure xmonad itself. Create the file __~/.xmonad/xmonad.hs__ with the following contents.

    import XMonad
    import XMonad.Hooks.ManageDocks

    main = do
        xmonad $ defaultConfig
            { modMask = mod4Mask -- make Win as mod key
            , terminal = "terminator" -- replace with your fav terminal emu
            , manageHook = manageDocks <+> manageHook defaultConfig -- ignore docks
            }

Finally the most imp thing -- aesthetics. If you use xmonad with just the above setup, you will find that gtk applications like firefox look terribly ugly, but fixing this issue is simple. So, go ahead and do it before you start using xmonad.

Launch __gtk-chtheme__ and select your preferred gtk-2.0 theme and any font that catches your eye as well. Save your settings. You should now find the file __~/.gtkrc-2.0__.

Now, let us fix some ugly gtk-3.0 apps as well. Create the file __~/.config/gtk-3.0/settings.ini__ with the following contents (choose your preferred themes and fonts).

    [Settings]
    gtk-theme-name = Lubuntu-default
    gtk-icon-theme-name = Lubuntu
    gtk-font-name = Ubuntu Medium 11

Thats it. Logout and log in selecting xmonad at the login prompt. You are greeted with a plain screen. Press __Win+Shift+Ret__ to launch the __terminal__ or __Win+Shift+P__ to launch your fav apps via __gmrun__. For more basic keybindings and usage, checkout the man page of xmonad or head to [Xmonad Official Doc](http://xmonad.org/tour.html).


You might also like to have a tray for your fav applets like nm-applet | dropbox | battery status | pidgin, etc. Read on.

    $ sudo apt-get install trayer

Create a shell script __~/.autostart__ with execute permission with the following contents.

    #!/bin/bash

    mpd &>/dev/null &
    dropbox start &>/dev/null &
    redshift -l 12.9667:77.5667 -t 3700:3700 &>/dev/null &

    trayer --edge bottom --align right --SetDockType true \
    --SetPartialStrut true --expand true --width 20 --height 25 &>/dev/null &

    sleep 1
    nm-applet --sm-disable &>/dev/null &

I am using this script to start a few applications I use frequently like mpd(ncmpcpp), dropbox, redshift.

Then, I am creating a tray with trayer, and then launching nm-applet which I can then access from the tray which is visible on all workspaces (Win+1 to Win+9) courtesy of the managehook in our xmonad.hs configuration file.

At the moment, I am using this shell script to launch apps manually after logging into xmonad. My attempts at using .xinitrc or .xsession to automate the same have failed. I would appreciate it if anyone could point me in the right direction. I will keep this page updated as and when I find something new and noteworthy.

Comments and feedback and tips|tricks are welcome.
